Insecure Output Handling Mitigations

After discussing different ways of exploiting security vulnerabilities resulting from insecure output handling in LLM applications, let us explore how to prevent them. Mitigations for security vulnerabilities resulting from insecure output handling of LLM-generated responses are similar to mitigations for traditional output vulnerabilities. A combination of proper data validation, access control, and additional hardening measures provides a strong security level that can thwart most attacks.
Vulnerability Prevention

All of the security vulnerabilities discussed in this module arise from improper handling of the LLM's generated output. It is essential to treat any text generated by an LLM as untrusted data - just like user input. In particular, proper output validation, sanitization, and escaping need to be applied. All security measures implemented when handling user input must also be applied to any LLM-generated output. In particular, this includes proper encoding or sanitization of data. For instance, we need to apply HTML encoding before inserting an LLM response into an HTML response to avoid XSS vulnerabilities and use prepared statements when injecting an LLM response into a SQL query.

On top of that, it is crucial to think of all functions and data the LLM has access to as publicly accessible. The LLM should not be used to keep specific function calls or data from the user. As such, prompt engineering is not an effective access control mechanism. Prompts like This function is only accessible to administrators are ineffective, as we have seen throughout this module. Since all data the LLM can access is effectively publicly accessible, we should not give the LLM access to sensitive data or functions.

The implementation of additional mitigations can increase the security level further. For example, strict access control mechanisms can limit how unauthorized attackers can interact with LLMs. If specific LLM features are only accessible to high-privilege users, lower-privilege attackers may be unable to exploit potential security vulnerabilities. Like traditional applications, access control mechanisms are only effective if they cannot be bypassed. As such, we must rely on additional systems to implement the access control measures. As we have seen throughout this module, relying on prompt engineering for access control is insufficient.

Lastly, we should consider additional hardening measures to reduce the impact of potential security vulnerabilities. In deployments where system commands are executed based on LLM-generated output, sandboxed environments used explicitly for code execution can significantly limit the impact of a potential code injection vulnerability. Suppose an attacker can execute arbitrary system commands by exploiting a security vulnerability. In that case, they will only be able to access the (hopefully) secure and isolated sandbox environment, reducing the impact of such a vulnerability significantly.
